# Making sense of knowledge 

Currently we live in an era which is characterized by concise digital features. There are a lot of different approaches trying to capture the concept and the idea of the spirit given by the age. A few for example call it the “network era (...) characterized by vast and dynamic social connectivity, facilitated by widespread digital and electronic media” [1], whereas others rely more on the feature of Big data and name it therefore “era of Big Data [...] enabled by the widespread availability of electronic storage media, specifically mainframe computers, servers and server farms, and storage area networks.” [5] and once again another view is to call the current era the “digital era” [3] in which “digital technologies play a prominent role in shaping up and regulating the behaviors, performances, standards, etc., of societies, communities, organizations, and individuals. “ [4]. What is the inference out of this knowledge? What have all of these explanations in common? In the first place, it is suitable to say that each of these explanations try to describe the same phenomenon from a different perspective. The network era for instance, focuses mainly on a social media perspective, highlighting social connectivity and the widespread use of media. The named vast and dynamic can also be found in the described Big data era, whereas the digital era emphasizes especially the regulation and manipulation of behaviors. We can conclude that the current era has complex and constantly changing components which makes it hard to grasp and creates a need for multifaceted portrayals. Specific key elements of the current era, whatever you want to call it, are data, information, knowledge, big data, the process of data curation. Especially in order to make sense out of these notions, they will be classified into a specific context, and also to be defined properly in section II. This paper is an overview of how I personally define given concepts that were learned in the seminar Curating Data, as well as 2 critical questions concerning the link of curation and data are posed. During the course of this paper, I will stress the importance of these questions and also I will connect my thoughts to the learning and assignments of the seminar where useful. As was already indicated, in the current era we are in, data are produced to vast amounts, and are everywhere. Critical movements and provocations arose which are dealing with the so called data life cycle which is the process starting with the production and ending with archiving and storing. During this specific process concerns dealing with ethics, equity and biases emerge, since data became an object of economy, research and even governance. Who has access to the data and thereof power? How is the data organized, collected and modeled and who is performing that? The idea
is to emphasize and explain where in this explained image the process of curating data is located and what issues it is facing. The 2 critical questions I want to pose in section IV
are directly connected to that. Namely, I want to address the question of performance since there is not only humanbased curation of data, but also artificial intelligence (AI) based curation. I want to ask, What is the difference between human- and AI-based Curation ? While comparing the two types of curation, I will also approach certain advantages and disadvantages of both. Hence, the follow up question in place is, Is AI-based Curation the new human-based curation and can be seen as a replacement? When discussing these questions, the intertwined nature of those different curation types will become obvious and also the topic of mixing those two will be touched. In the last part of this paper in section V I want to stress the importance of those critical questions and embed them into the context of the multilayered era we live in. Consequently, some questions for further research will
arise and be posed.
